Prepare Students to Succeed with Social-Emotional Learning Courses
Vector Solutions' engaging student courses cover a wide variety of safety, wellness, and social and emotional learning topics that are integral to human development and education.

Our flexible online courses positively impact school culture, improve student outcomes, and keep students safe.

Discover why K-12 leaders trust Vector Solutions' Student Courses to deliver high-quality SEL programs for middle school and high school learners.

Why Vector Solutions?
Engaging, video-based courses are customized for grades 6-8 and 9-12 and align with the CASEL Framework for SEL.
Feature diverse peer presenters and live-action scenarios, and include educator lesson plans and resources.
Courses are authored by K-12 subject matter experts, so administrators and teachers can trust the quality of the content presented in the courses.
 
Request a demo today to explore Vector's safety, wellness, and sel school programs!
Request a Demo

Work Email*
you@domain.com

First Name*
First Name
Last Name*
Last Name

Phone Number*
Phone Number
Job Title*
Job Title

State/Region*

State - Please Select

Industry*

Industry - Please Select

Organization Name*
Company Name



















Trusted by School Districts Nationwide
EDU-Virginia-Beach-Square.png
boston_public.gif
EDU-Charlotte-Mecklenburg-Square.png
aisd_logo_512.png
choice-logo-512.png
Student Courses LP 1 - Oct 2023
Engaging Student Courses
Our powerful, engaging courses for students help positively impact school culture and improve student outcomes. Packages include:

Substance Misuse Prevention
Mental Health & Well Being
Healthy Relationships
Personal & Community Safety
Career Readiness & Life Skills
EDU - K12 - Student Courses - Landing Page - Mockup
Intuitive Training Platform
With new expanded platform capabilities, administrators can better customize, manage, and report on training. Our robust features include:


Educator Resources & Facilitators Guides
Course Translations
Customize Courses with School Specific Policies
Learning Assesments
Pre- and Post-Course Surveys and Reporting
Download Guide
Strategies for a Successful SEL Program
Download the guide for 5 important steps for implementing an SEL program at your school!

Download Guide
Student Teacher High Five
Our Methodology
The Vector Solutions Approach

More and more schools are looking to technology as the cornerstone of their safety, well-being, and prevention initiatives. Make the most of your investment with a technology partner that meets your needs across the critical elements of a comprehensive prevention and compliance strategy.
 

vs-ef-icon-designed-by-experts
Compliance
Our team of legal experts continually monitor the legislative landscape to ensure that changes or additional requirements are reflected in training content.

vs-ef-icon-fresh-content
Fresh Content
Our courses are built by leading prevention experts alongside renowned researchers and practitioners for a research-based approach.

vs-ef-icon-customizable
Design
Our expert designers and developers design all aspects of our products with accessibility in mind to create courses that are as engaging as they are impactful.

vs-ef-icon-data-insights
Administration
Our platform is designed to empower administrators to easily deploy and customize training, communicate with learners, track completion, access data insights, and obtain support.

