TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
Why Service-Learning?  ................................................................................................... 1 
Social Emotional Learning and Character Education Team ............................................. 2 
Character Education and Service Learning: An Overview ................................................ 3 
Examples of Service-Learning .......................................................................................... 4 
Service-Learning Diploma and Awards.......................................................................... 5-6 
Important Dates and Information ...................................................................................... 7 
GCS Teachers: Using Service-Learning as a Teaching Strategy 
in Classrooms and Clubs .................................................................................................. 8 
Service-Learning Teacher Documentation Form .............................................................. 9 
Service-Learning: Addressing Community Needs .......................................................... 10 
What Qualifies for the High School Service-Learning Awards Program? ....................... 11 
Service-Learning Expectations ....................................................................................... 12 
Service-Learning Experience Student Process .............................................................. 13 
Service-Learning Approval Form ............................................................................... 14-15 
Service-Learning Student Log ........................................................................................ 16 
High Quality Student Reflection ...................................................................................... 17 
Service-Learning Reflection Form .................................................................................. 18 
Service-Learning Appeal Form ....................................................................................... 19 
x2VOL ........................................................................................................................ 20-21 
Did You Know? ............................................................................................................... 22 
WHY SERVICE-LEARNING?  
Dear Friends,  
It is the mission of GCS that every student receives a world-class education and leaves prepared to succeed in the college or career 
of their choice. One proven way of achieving that mission is through character development and service-learning.  
Students involved in service-learning are far more likely to become civic minded and involved in their community years after they 
graduate. They also improve their social and personal skills, the “essential” or “soft skills” we hear so many employers say they look 
for in potential employees. We must engage students and give them opportunities to work alongside others. Service-learning, when 
done well, accomplishes this.  
The district is implementing social emotional learning as a framework to support and build on the work being done through character 
development and service learning. Social emotional learning is the process through which children and adults understand and 
manage emotions, set and achieve positive goals, feel and show empathy for others, establish and maintain positive relationships 
and make responsible decisions. As we strengthen these skills throughout our classrooms and buildings, we expect to see a greater 
focus on serving others, as well as increased student achievement and improved behavior.  
Our district is dedicated to transforming learning and life outcomes for all students, and service-learning is one important way we can 
help do that. Thank you for your participation, and I look forward to the great things you will do through this process.  
WHY DISTRICTS, SCHOOLS, 
AND CLASSROOMS SHOULD 
PRACTICE SERVICE
LEARNING 
• Service-Learning leads to 
engagement and effective 
instruction. 
• Service-Learning helps academic 
improvement and higher order 
thinking skills. 
•  
• Service-Learning fosters the development of important personal and social skills. 
• Service-Learning develops stronger ties to schools, communities and society. 
• Service-Learning promotes exploration of various career pathways. 
• Service-Learning is associated with positive school environments. 
• Service-Learning is associated with more community support for schools. 
Source: RMC Research Corporation. (2007). “Why districts, schools, and classrooms should practice service- learning.” 
Scotts Valley, CA: National Service-Learning Clearinghouse. Retrieved from: http://servicelearning. org/instant 
info/factsheets/k-12_facts/why/
If you are a community partner and have questions regarding Service
The Social Emotional Learning and 
Character Education team supports the 
growth and implementation of social 
and emotional learning through current 
researched practices. Character 
Education and Service Learning are 
strong factors in the growth of social 
and emotional learning. 
Learning in Guilford County Schools (GCS), please contact the GCS Social 
Studies and Civic Engagement Department. We strive to support and foster 
relationships with community members while they help our students grow 
through service learning. You may register as a non-profit organization on 
x2VOL.com. We look forward to working with you.  
If you are a student, parent, or school staff and have questions 
regarding Service-Learning in Guilford County Schools (GCS), please 
contact Jay Cameron, cameroj2@gcsnc.com. 
Service-Learning Office 
Washington Street Annex Building 
Greensboro, NC 27401 
Office Phone: (336)574-2645x7 
Cell Phone: (336) 709-9536 
Social Emotional Learning and Service 
Learning: An Overview 
Guilford County Schools (GCS) 
partnered with The Collaborative for 
Academic, Social, and Emotional 
Learning (CASEL) in 2019.  
Guilford County Schools (GCS) understands the importance and the benefits of providing 
students with understanding and opportunities when it comes to Social Emotional Learning 
and Service Learning. Social Emotional Learning and Service Learning go together hand in 
hand to develop students into successful community members.  
What is Social Emotional Learning? 
SEL is the process through which all young people and adults acquire and  
apply the knowledge, skills, and attitudes to develop healthy identities,  
manage emotions and achieve personal and collective goals, feel, 
and show empathy for others, establish, and maintain supportive  
relationships, and make responsible and caring decisions. 
What is Service-Learning? 
A way of teaching and learning that connects positive and meaningful action in 
the community with academic learning, personal growth and civic responsibility. 
Service-Learning helps develop citizenship and good character while providing 
direct connections to the academic curriculum. Service-Learning experiences 
allow students to   apply their   Social and Emotional skills into action. 
Service Learning: Breakdown  
Service Learning: Recognition 
*These guidelines do not apply to OCS/Adaptive Students 
EXAMPLES OF SERVICE-LEARNING 
Service-Learning is more than just simple volunteering. 
In the process of service to their school and/or 
community, students learn a lot about themselves 
and their responsibilities as a citizen while making 
connections with what they are learning in schools. 
Service-Learning: EXAMPLE 1 
1. Coordinating a community marathon is service. 
2. Measuring body mass index is learning. 
“ 
To give real 
service you 
must add 
something 
which cannot 
be bought or 
measured 
with money, 
and that is 
sincerity and 
integrity .
 ” 
Douglas 
Adams 
3. Calculating the average BMI of a school, setting up a website to 
gather statistics, then organizing a “Walk across North Carolina” to 
help reduce obesity is service learning. 
Service-Learning: EXAMPLE 2 
1. Picking up trash on a riverbank is service. 
2. Studying water samples under a microscope is learning. 
3. Science students collecting and analyzing water samples, documenting 
their results and presenting their findings to a local pollution control 
agency is service learning. 
* Adapted from National Youth Leadership Council (http://www.nylc.org/) 
How Students Engage in Service-Learning 
1. Students can participate in service-learning experiences through 
GCS classes/clubs. GCS staff should complete a Teacher 
Documentation Form found on x2vol. 
2. Students can participate in service-learning experiences independently 
through non-profit community-based service-learning projects. Students 
should complete the Service-Learning Approval Form found on x2VOL.
SERVICE-LEARNING DIPLOMA  
SERVICE-LEARNING DIPLOMA REQUIREMENTS  
The Service-Learning Diploma is a locally developed, official recognition program designed to 
recognize high school students who are committed to serving their community. Students who 
complete a minimum of 200 hours of service- learning experience over the course of their high 
school years will receive this certification upon graduation.  
• The program is designed to recognize students who dedicate a significant amount of time to 
service- learning to address challenges and solve problems in the community. 
• All students who complete this program will be awarded a GCS Service-Learning Diploma. Additionally, 
at graduation, these students will be distinguished by wearing a Service-Learning cord. 
Hours must be submitted within the semester that they are completed. Hours completed from June-December must 
be entered into x2vol by end of December. Hours completed from January-May must be entered by the end of May.  
SL Approval Forms must be submitted within the semester that service is started with the organization and should be 
submitted prior to beginning service. 
Students entering GCS at any time after their 9th grade year will still be required to complete a minimum of 250 service hours to be eligible 
for the Service-Learning Diploma. Documented and verifiable Service-Learning hours that meet the program criteria completed in school 
districts outside of Guilford County will count towards the Service-Learning Diploma and Service-Learning Exemplary Award.  
Service-Learning Exemplary Award 
SERVICE-LEARNING EXEMPLARY AWARD REQUIREMENTS  
The Service-Learning Exemplary Award is an honor GCS high school student may receive upon 
graduation. This award recognizes students who have devoted a minimum of 100 hours of service
learning experience in their community throughout their high school years.  
Graduates are required to complete 100 hours of service to receive the 
Service-Learning Exemplary Award 
While there is no set number of hours to be earned in any school year, as a time management tool, 
we recommend the following schedule as a guide.  
Suggested schedule to acquire the 100 hours of Service-Learning Exemplary Award.  
Freshman Year: 
25 Hours
 Sophomore 
Year: 25 Hours 
Junior Year: 
25 Hours 
Senior Year: 25 
Hours 
FOR BOTH SERVICE-LEARNING DIPLOMA AND SERVICE-LEARNING EXEMPLARY 
AWARD: Students may begin documenting hours beginning the first day of their ninth-grade 
year. Students may talk with their guidance counselors or school-based service learning 
coach with any questions.  
HIGH SCHOOL SERVICE-LEARNING PROGRAM 
IMPORTANT DATES AND INFORMATION 
The vision of the Social Emotional 
Learning and Character Education 
team is for Guilford County 
Schools’ students to lead and 
learn with strong character. One of 
the Strategic Plan’s goals is to 
provide our students with the tools 
and motivation necessary to 
positively impact our world. Thus, 
at Guilford County Schools, we 
offer the following awards to 
students who answer this 
challenge: 
1. Service-Learning Diploma 
2. Service-Learning Exemplary 
Award 
Submit all Teacher Documentation 
Forms for all service-learning projects 
completed during the school year 
for freshmen, sophomore or junior 
classes no later than the last day 
of school on x2VOL. 
END OF 1ST SEMESTER 
All students submit Service-Learning Approval Forms for all previous summer hours to their 
school supervisor.  
Graduating Seniors 
3rd Wednesday in March (3/20/24) – FINAL submission for all 
Service-Learning Approval Forms 
1st Wednesday after Spring Break (4/17/24)– FINAL submission for all 
service-learning hours and Teacher Documentation Forms for seniors into 
x2VOL. 
Sophomores, Juniors 
As you continue to engage in service-learning, please submit all service
learning approval forms online to your counselor and enter your hours 
into x2VOL. 
GCS STAFF: USING SERVICE-LEARNING 
AS A TEACHING STRATEGY IN CLASSROOMS 
AND CLUBS 
If you are a teacher or club sponsor for Service-Learning activities, here is what 
you need to do: 
1. Plan a quality Service-Learning experience that: 
Connects to National Youth Leadership Council’s (www.nylc.org) K-12 Service- 
Learning Standards for Quality Practice listed below: - 
Meaningful Service - Link to Curriculum - 
Diversity - Reflection - 
Youth Voice - Partnerships 
Progress Monitoring - - Duration and Intensity 
2. Facilitate your students’ participation in a quality service-learning 
experience through Investigation, Preparation & Planning, Action, Reflection, 
and Demonstration (IPARD). 
Allows students to participate in the following five components of quality service- 
learning: - - - - - 
Investigation: Identify a need or area of interest in their school or community 
Preparation and Planning: Engage in planning, implementation, and 
evaluation processes 
Action: Begin the act of service 
Reflection: Reflect on the experience before, during, and after 
Demonstration: Share their experience with family, friends, school 
and/or community 
3. Register the Service-Learning experience by: 
Completing and submitting the Service-Learning Teacher Documentation Form 
via email to the Service-Learning Teacher Leader contact at your school before 
engaging youth in a service-learning experience. 
Students can earn hours for time spent in preparing and planning as well as 
time in service. 
You should receive an email from the Teacher Lead verifying that your documents have 
been received and approved. 
Once the Teacher Documentation Form is received by the approved, create an 
Opportunity on x2VOL within your school’s community. 
This will allow students to track hours. 
 
 
GCS SERVICE-LEARNING 
TEACHER DOCUMENTATION FORM   
Youth voice and choice drives the service-learning experience Turn in to your Service-Learning School representative.  
 
SCHOOL: DURATION OF SERVICE-LEARNING EXPERIENCE: 
o WEEK o MONTH o SEMESTER o YEAR 
 
 
TEACHER(S)/CLASS/CLUB: GRADE LEVEL: NO. OF STUDENTS: 
 
1. Themes that apply to service-learning. (Check all that apply): 
o Animals 
o Community Renewal 
o Education 
o Elders 
o Environment 
o Health and Nutrition 
o Immigration 
o Poverty 
o Safety 
o Other   
 
2. What is the overall purpose for this service-learning experience? 
3. What books were integrated into this service-learning experience? 
 
GUIDING PRACTICES FOR SERVICE-LEARNING 
LINKS TO CURRICULUM: Which curriculum standards/knowledge and skills will 
be advanced through this service-learning experience? 
 
CHARACTER EDUCATION: Which intrinsic character traits are highlighted in 
this service-learning experience? (Kindness, Respect, Integrity, etc.) 
 
MEANINGFUL SERVICE: How can this service be personally significant to the 
youth and community? 
 
RECIPROCAL PARTNERSHIPS: How do students gain career opportunities, 
communication skills, and understand the vantage points of others in a way that 
benefits everyone? 
 
RESPECT FOR DIVERSITY: What opportunities are available for youth to experience 
and explore different backgrounds and replace stereotypes/ biases with accurate 
information and honor the community? 
 
MONITOR PROGRESS: How do students observe and measure change over 
time? 
 
I.P.A.R.D.  
INVESTIGATION: Do students substantiate a need using media, 
interviews, surveys and observations? 
 
PREPARATION/PLANNING: How did students deepen understanding and use 
their knowledge and skills to prepare for action? 
 
ACTION: Will students engage and/or research services as they make local and 
global connections? 
 
REFLECTION: How do students express their thoughts and feelings using 
diverse approaches and modalities? 
 
DEMONSTRATION: How do students share what they learned, how they 
learned and what they accomplished with an appropriate audience? 
 
 
21st Century Learning Skills youth will develop through this experience (check all that apply): 
o Accountability 
o Asking Questions 
o Communication/Collaboration 
o Creativity/Innovation 
o Critical Thinking/Problem Solving 
o Flexibility/Adaptability 
o Initiative 
o Leadership 
o Social/Cross Cultural Skills 
o Writing 
Submission Date:    
SERVICE-LEARNING: ADDRESSING 
COMMUNITY NEEDS  
WHAT QUALIFIES? 
Let’s Get Started! 
Students engaged in a service-learning experience should refer to the 
wheel below before submitting a Service-Learning Approval or Teacher 
Documentation form. 
What real world need do you care about? Make sure your hours make a 
difference. Please refer to the wheel below to discover what possible community 
needs you can address through service-learning. 
Remember it’s about the service and the learning.                
 
 
Service 
SERVICE-LEARNING HOURS: 
WHAT QUALIFIES?  
BEGIN YOUR INVESTIGATION WITH COMMUNITY NEEDS AND ISSUES (GO TO PAGE 9). For more information on what is and what 
is not service learning please check the GCS website.  
 
 DOES EARN SERVICE HOURS 
 
 
 
For Profit 
    - Shadowing  - Administrative Assistant Tasks. - Internship 
 
 
 
 
Religious and Faith 
Based Organizations 
 - Feeding the Homeless - Administrative Aid - Assisting in the nursery/ providing childcare - Camps and Tutoring - Tech Services 
 
Childcare 
and 
Elder-care 
Services 
 - Childcare services at agencies  - Elder care services at agencies 
 
 
 
School Clubs - Regular club meetings - Fundraising for the club treasury, uniforms, field trips, etc. - Helping with club meetings 
 
Sports, 
Performing 
Arts and 
ROTC 
 - Camps or classes that charge tuition* - For-profit camp or business* - Color Guard – Parades 
  
 
 
Court 
Mandated 
 
 
Court mandated hours count towards service-learning hours. Please contact the Service-Learning Coordinator 
for more details. 
 
 
 
Politics 
 
No political activities will count. 
 
 
 
Animals 
 
 
*Students must seek approval from school-based service-learning coach and submit in writing what they 
will do at the agency PRIOR to starting. 
Source: Adapted from the Long Beach Unified School District Student Service-Learning Manual 
 
 
Service 
SERVICE-LEARNING HOURS: 
WHAT QUALIFIES?  
BEGIN YOUR INVESTIGATION WITH COMMUNITY NEEDS AND ISSUES (GO TO PAGE 9). For more information on what is and what 
is not service learning please check the GCS website.  
 
 DOES NOT EARN SERVICE HOURS 
 
 
 
For Profit 
 
 
*Students must seek approval from school-based service-learning coach and submit in 
writing what they will do at the agency PRIOR to starting. 
 
 
 
Religious and Faith 
Based Organizations - Recruitment/ membership building - Teaching about an organization (The goal is for you to perform charitable and service-learning work, 
not just talk about it!) - Vacation Bible School - Rehearsals (choir, church, plays, etc.) - Participating in a religious activity - Assisting/ teaching Sunday School 
 
Childcare 
and 
Elder-care 
Services 
 
 - Babysitting for family, friends, or neighbors 
 
 
 
 
 
School Clubs 
 - Activities that benefit only you - Activities that benefit only the club - Recruitment/ membership building 
 
 
 
Sports, 
Performing 
Arts and 
ROTC 
 - Ticket profit goes to club 
 
 
 
Court 
Mandated 
 
 
Please see previous page. 
 
 
 
Politics 
 - Protests/strikes/rallies - Work for political candidates or parties or special interests 
 
 
 
Animals 
 
 
Please see previous page. 
Source: Adapted from the Long Beach Unified School District Student Service-Learning Manual 
SERVICE-LEARNING EXPECTATIONS 
EXPECTATIONS OF PARENTS 
1. Help your child select an agency/organization/club that will provide him/her 
an opportunity to positively impact his/her community through service. 
2. Sign the Service-Learning Approval Form and, if necessary, assist your child 
in obtaining a signature from the agency/organization/club. 
3. As your child participates in the service, discuss with him/her what he/she 
is doing; how it relates to what he/she is learning in school and how it is 
helping to make positive changes in the community. 
4. Parents are unable to verify their own student’s hours. If the parent 
is the advisor of an organization, then an assistant to the program 
is responsible for verifying the student’s service-learning hours. 
“ 
No act of 
kindness, 
no matter 
how small, 
is ever 
wasted.
 ” 
Aesop 
EXPECTATIONS OF SERVICE-LEARNING PROVIDERS 
1. Give the student an opportunity to participate in the planning of 
his/her service-learning experience. 
2. Provide a safe and engaging experience. 
3. Report any major issues or incidents of inappropriate 
behavior to the Character Development Office. 
4. Accurately record the number of hours the student engages in the 
service in order to verify student hours. 
5. Help the student reflect on the impact of his/her service before, during 
and after the service-learning experience (see pages 16-17 for more 
information about Reflection). 
6. Advocate for other organizations to engage students in service-learning 
experiences. 
SERVICE-LEARNING STUDENT PROCESS 
EXPERIENCE  
In quality Service-Learning experiences, students participate in the following five components: This 
process will help students create their community-based service-learning project and complete the 
Service-Learning Approval Form that is submitted on x2VOL.  
Investigation   
• Identify a need or area of interest in your school or community (consult the wheel on page 9 of this handbook to stay 
on track). 
•  Discuss what you would like to do with your parents and get approval.  
• Contact a Service-Learning Provider (this could be a community agency, an organization, a club or a teacher advisor) 
who currently addresses the need or area of interest you have identified to gather additional information. 
Preparation and Planning    
• Work with your selected Service-Learning Provider to identify specific duties that would be expected of you.  
• Complete the Service-Learning Approval Form 
Action 
• Begin the change in your school and community. 
• Continue your reflections throughout your time of service. 
• Get started in x2VOL to track your hours (instructions on page 20-21). 
Reflection 
• Document your reflections before, during and after the service. 
• Choose unique ways to reflect throughout the service. (Example(s): Create a mural/scrapbook, make a video, write a 
poem, keep a journal or complete the Service-Learning Reflection form.) 
• Discuss your reflection activity with the Service-Learning Provider at the end of your service. 
Demonstration 
• Share your experience with your family, friends, school, house of worship, community or elected officials. 
SERVICE-LEARNING APPROVAL FORM 
Starting June 15, 2023, students will fill out service-learning approval forms via X2VOL. The student will see a link 
that guides them to the service-learning approval form. The link will be located on your homepage of X2VOL. In 
addition, students can find the link on their school’s service-learning Canvas page. If you have trouble finding this 
information, please contact your school service-learning coach! Remember, please submit a service-learning 
approval form BEFORE completing an opportunity. Thank you! 
 
 
SERVICE-LEARNING STUDENT LOG 
 
The following form is an example of a hard copy of a log. X2VOL keeps a virtual log for you.  
 
STUDENT’S NAME: SCHOOL: 
 
EMAIL: STUDENT ID#: 
 
 
NAME OF AGENCY/ORGANIZATION: 
 
 
CURRENT GRADE LEVEL: CURRENT SCHOOL YEAR: GRADUATION YEAR: 
 
 
NOTE: 
You must have submitted the approval form and had your hours approved for your service hours to be logged. X2VOL keeps a running 
log of your hours but you may use the paper version for your records. 
 
 
 
Date 
 
 
Activity/Task Performed 
Total Hours 
Worked 
(by full hour) 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    Total hours documented on this page:    
 
Signature of Service-Learning Provider    
 
 
HIGH QUALITY STUDENT REFLECTIONS 
 
High quality reflection activities can be completed before, during and after service-learning experiences. Engaging in reflection 
allows young people to activate critical thinking skills to address community needs. We have included several activities that 
can be used based on the learning style and interest of the young person. 
 
Linguistic 
 
Write an article for the school newspaper with guidelines for 
future volunteers/service-learning participants 
 
Create a podcast or public service announcement 
 
 
Logical/ Mathematical 
 
Create a timeline or flowchart for service-learning program Design an opinion poll or survey to learn about other 
participants’ perceptions of project; graph or chart results 
 
 
Body/Kinesthetic 
 
Do an art or craft project involving hands such as sculpting Make a videotape 
 
 
Spatial 
 
Make cartoons, collages, photos, drawings or paintings 
of the issue. 
 
Make a model or mobile representing the experience 
 
 
Musical 
 
Find a song that conveys some aspect of your experience Create a jingle about the issue 
 
 
Interpersonal 
 
Interview community partners and beneficiaries of services Train other students who will participate in the project 
 
 
Intrapersonal 
 
Create a scrapbook or memory box of your experience Make a self-assessment of the project 
 
 
Naturalist 
 
Brainstorm and then categorize ideas for next steps in service- 
learning projects 
 
Investigate a problem related to the project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SERVICE-LEARNING REFLECTION FORM 
 
INSTRUCTIONS: The Reflection Form should be completed by the student online. Reflection happens before, during and after a 
student’s service experience to encourage students to evaluate personal, social and civic issues related to their world and its 
connections to public policy and civic life. Please submit your reflection documentation in your approval form and on x2VOL.  
 
NAME: DATE: 
 
SCHOOL: STUDENT ID#: 
 
SERVICE-LEARNING EXPERIENCE: 
 
 
1. How did this experience help you to better understand your responsibilities and roles as a citizen? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. What skills and knowledge did you acquire through this experience? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. How did your service impact your school or community? How do you know? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. How did this experience help you better understand ideas or subjects you have been studying? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Give an example of how “Be the Change” impacted you.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. How will you use what you learned in other situations? 
 
 
 
 
As the Service-Learning Provider, I verify that I have engaged this student in meaningful reflection.    
STUDENT SERVICE-LEARNING 
DEADLINE APPEAL 
h h b k h  l d d   
All parent and/or student concerns regarding deadlines and other issues other than the 
rejection of Service-Learning Approval Forms must be submitted in writing to school 
personnel. This form and additional documentation will be reviewed by school personnel 
and GCS district staff if needed. The appeal process involves four steps: process, 
conversation, mediation, and decision. The service-learning coach denies the hours via 
X2VOL and documents the reason why. Next, the coach and student will have a dialogue 
on why the hours were denied; a parent may be involved in this step. If neither party can 
come to a solution, the situation can be appealed. Appeals may transpire virtually or in
person. During the appeal, we review the situation, discuss handbook guidelines, identify 
ways to prevent this situation from reoccurring, and the student has the chance to 
acknowledge what they could have done differently and what handbook guideline they did 
not follow. Finally, I make a decision and share the outcome with the parent, service
learning coach, and other involved GCS personnel. If you have any questions, please 
contact Jay Cameron (cameroj2@gcsnc.com). 
PLEASE NOTE IF SERVICE-LEARNING GUIDELINES THAT ARE OUTLINED IN THE 
HANDBOOK WERE NOT FOLLOWED, YOU WILL ONLY BE ABLE TO RECEIVE UP 
TO 25 PERCENT OF THE HOURS YOU ARE TRYING TO RECEIVE CREDIT FOR. 
REGISTERING TO X2VOL FOR GCS STUDENTS 
1. Go to www.x2VOL.com and click JOIN. 
2. Type in your School Name and click Search. 
3. Type in your Last Name and the Email you used in Noble Hour. If you didn’t 
use Noble Hour, just enter your email. If you had more than one email in 
Noble Hour, enter one of them. 
4. Your First Name should appear in the first field on the next page. 
5. TYPE IN YOUR STUDENT ID in the third field next to your last name. 
(if there is an email there, remove it and add your Student ID) 
6. Enter your address and a phone number in the Home Phone field. 
7. See your email populated and click proceed. 
8. Set your interests and skills and click proceed. 
9. Set your password, select your group and check the required boxes to complete 
your registration. 
10. Log in and view your Dashboard. 
IMPORTANT NOTE: if you have switched schools in the past in GCS, please contact 
support@intellivol.com with your first and last name and the GCS schools you’ve 
attended. We will have to confirm your school is accurate in our system before you 
can register. 
If you have ANY issues registering, please contact support@intellivol.com or 
866-906-6400 and we will be glad to assist you! 
LOGGING HOURS IN X2VOL 
My Hours were denied, 
what do I do? 
If your Service-Learning Program 
Coach denies your hours for any 
reason, you will receive an email 
notifying you the hours have been 
denied. If they added a comment, 
you will see that as well. 
Editing your entries in x2VOL… 
You can edit your project entry by 
going to your Activity Log page and 
clicking the [Edit] button next to 
the entry you wish to edit. You only 
can edit opportunities that have not 
been approved by the school yet. 
HELP! How to use x2VOL additional 
videos and instructions: 
https://myintellivol.desk.com/ 
1. Log in to x2VOL and view your Dashboard. 
2. Click the green button, [Add Hours]. 
3. You will be on your Activity Log page. 
a. If you signed up for an opportunity in x2VOL prior to the event happening, 
you will see it listed in the bottom section, Community and School 
Opportunities. Click the [Add Hours] button to log your hours. 
b. If you did not sign up for the opportunity in x2VOL, you can log your hours as a 
Personal Project. Click the blue, [Create New] button in the top section titled 
Personal Projects. 
4. Every time you log hours, there will be fields to fill out: Activity Name, Project 
Description, Hours amount, date etc. You can add an attachment if needed. 
5. Recurring Project: if this project is something you do on a regular basis, make 
sure you check the box, [Make this a Recurring Project]. It will save to your 
Activity Log and allow you to just add the hours and dates in the future, instead 
of logging the entire activity from scratch each time. 
6. Multiple Dates: if you’ve done a project over the span of multiple dates, you 
should enter the last date you volunteered and then explain the details of all 
the dates you served in the description box. 
7. Goals: please select the proper goals for this project to count towards. You 
may only have one option to select with all your goals which allow double- 
dipping. 
8. Honor Code: you must check the honor code before submitting your hours. 
You are claiming that the information you submitted is accurate and true. 
DID YOU KNOW…? 
…Service-Learning helps 
students to be more connected 
to their school and community? 
…People who serve as adults 
are happier, healthier and more 
satisfied with their lives? 
Some things to think about as you 
participate in service-learning: 
You will represent your family and school. 
Do it with integrity by presenting yourself in appropriate attire and being well- 
groomed. 
Use appropriate language with children, the elderly, animals, etc. 
Listen respectfully and follow all directions. 
These are important social skills in future careers and in life. 
Honor all time commitments you make. 
This is a life skill you will need in any career you choose. 
Be prepared with whatever materials you need. 
(Notebook, pencil, sweater, gloves, your Service-Learning Log, etc.) 
Ask questions or clarify tasks when you are unclear of what is expected of you. 
Show character and honesty in all service-learning situations. 
Keep an accurate Service-Learning Student Log. 
Without a confirmation, you won’t get credit for your hours of service. 
Some of your teachers may offer service-learning hours related to their course. 
Remind them to register the service-learning experience with the number of hours 
each student has completed per each service-learning experience. (And be sure you 
keep a log of your hours of service.) 
Source: Adapted from the Long Beach Unified School District Student Service-Learning Manual 
In compliance with federal laws, Guilford County Schools administers all educational programs, employment activities and 
admissions without discrimination because of race, religion, national or ethnic origin, color, age, military service, disability 
or gender, except where exemption is appropriate and allowed by law. Refer to the Board of Education’s Discrimination Free 
Environment Policy AC for a complete statement. Inquiries or complaints should be directed to the Guilford County Schools