America's Best Regional Banks & Credit Unions 2026
By Jennifer H. Cunningham
Editor-in-Chief
Regional banks and credit unions form the financial backbone of communities across the country. They power local economies by supporting small businesses, financing community projects and providing reliable access to everyday banking services. With deep roots in the regions they serve, these institutions build personal relationships with customers, allowing them to tailor their support to local needs. 

Credit unions, structured as member-owned cooperatives, operate with service as their guiding mission. That commitment often results in lower fees, competitive loan options and an emphasis on member satisfaction. More than financial service providers, credit unions are community partners, showing up in neighborhoods, participating in local initiatives and helping strengthen the connections that bind their members together. 

To recognize the banks and credit unions making a meaningful difference, Newsweek and Plant-A Insights Group are proud to present America's Best Regional Banks and Credit Unions 2026. 

Our methodology utilized the Texas Ratio (a measure of a bank's credit quality) as well as reviewed profitability and net loans and leases, press coverage over the past two years, an elaborate large-scale independent customer survey of more than 71,000 U.S. citizens 1.9 million social media reviews and 129 million mobile app reviews. We then determined the top 500 regional banks and top 500 credit unions.  

We hope this list helps you find the most trusted financial institutions in your area—whether you're planning your next business venture or taking your next step toward financial security.


Licensing
Are you on the list?  Claim your award and learn how to use it.


North Carolina
Search...
★★★★½	Ameris Bank	Bank	2672	Atlanta, GA	AL, FL, GA, NC, SC	
★★★★½	Banc of California	Bank	1903	Los Angeles, CA	CA, CO, NC	
★★★★½	Byline Bank	Bank	1014	Chicago, IL	CA, IL, IN, NC, WI	
★★★★½	Coastal Credit Union	Credit Union	603	Raleigh, NC	NC	
★★★★½	Corning Credit Union	Credit Union	414	Corning, NY	NC, NY, PA, SC	
★★★★½	F&M Bank	Bank	124	Granite Quarry, NC	NC	
★★★★½	First Carolina Bank	Bank	312	Rocky Mount, NC	GA, NC, SC, VA	
★★★★½	Founders Federal Credit Union	Credit Union	840	Lancaster, SC	NC, SC	
★★★★½	Piedmont Advantage Credit Union	Credit Union	95	Winston Salem, NC	NC	
★★★★½	The Citizens Bank	Bank	185	Olanta, SC	NC, SC	
★★★★	Allegacy Federal Credit Union	Credit Union	407	Winston Salem, NC	NC	
★★★★	First Bank and Trust Company	Bank	457	Lebanon, VA	NC, TN, VA	
★★★★	Peoples Bank	Bank	277	Newton, NC	NC	
★★★★	TowneBank	Bank	2724	Portsmouth, VA	NC, VA	
